source/index.rst, before:

Zope Developer Information
==========================

Intended Audience
-----------------

This guide is for developers who are working **on** the various Zope-related
software projects, rather than for developers who work **with** those
projects' released software to build applications.  Developers in the
latter category should consult the relevant documentation for that software,
e.g.:

- `Zope Toolkit Documentation <http://docs.zope.org/zopetoolkit/>`_

- `The Zope2 Book <http://docs.zope.org/zope2/zope2book/>`_

- `The Zope2 Developers' Guide <http://docs.zope.org/zope2/zdgbook/>`_

- `Zope3 API Documentation <http://docs.zope.org/zope3/>`_


Resources for Contributors
--------------------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   repository-browsing
   bugtrackers
   irc-channels
   mailinglists
   development-culture


Contributing as a Non-Committer
-------------------------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   reporting-bugs
   sphinx-documentation
   noncommitter-svn
   noncommitter-bzr


Becoming a Zope Committer
-------------------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   becoming-a-committer
   subversion-writable-checkouts


Repository committee operations (internal)
------------------------------------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   new-members-procedure


Zope CVS Repository (obsolete)
------------------------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   cvs

Commit message:

Add introductory section noting various contributor roles.

source/index.rst, after:

Zope Developer Information
==========================

Intended Audience
-----------------

This guide is for developers who are working **on** the various Zope-related
software projects, rather than for developers who work **with** those
projects' released software to build applications.  Developers in the
latter category should consult the relevant documentation for that software,
e.g.:

- `Zope Toolkit Documentation <http://docs.zope.org/zopetoolkit/>`_

- `The Zope2 Book <http://docs.zope.org/zope2/zope2book/>`_

- `The Zope2 Developers' Guide <http://docs.zope.org/zope2/zdgbook/>`_

- `Zope3 API Documentation <http://docs.zope.org/zope3/>`_


Contributor Roles
-----------------

There are many different ways you might contribute to a Zope-related
project.  This guide tries to allow for different levels of participation
in such projects.  For instance:

- Susan might find a bug in the project while using the project's
  software in her own application.

- Later, she might volunteer to help triage and fix bugs during a bugday.

- She might attend a sprint to work on an important new feature in the
  project with other volunteers.

- Eventually, Susan might volunteer to assume responsibility with other
  team members for the ongoing maintenance and release management of the
  project.


Resources for Contributors
--------------------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   repository-browsing
   bugtrackers
   irc-channels
   mailinglists
   development-culture


Contributing as a Non-Committer
-------------------------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   reporting-bugs
   sphinx-documentation
   noncommitter-svn
   noncommitter-bzr


Becoming a Zope Committer
-------------------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   becoming-a-committer
   subversion-writable-checkouts


Repository committee operations (internal)
------------------------------------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   new-members-procedure


Zope CVS Repository (obsolete)
------------------------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2

   cvs
